README.MD, before:

# Basic TODO App 

This is a basic TODO app, that can be deployed using the included Helm charts on Kubernetes. First you should set up a Kubernetes cluster with the repo found [here](https://github.com/dtraskas/dev-cluster1). 

The app can only store todo items in memory and offers three endpoints:

```http
GET /healthz
POST /tasks
GET /tasks
```

The `healthz` endpoint is used by Kubernetes to check the deployed pods for their health.

To run locally simply execute:

```bash
export FLASK_APP=app
flask run
```

## Makefile

The Makefile can be used to build a Docker image and push it to the Docker container registry of your choice. Please ensure you have replaced the registry in the Makefile before you run any command.

To build an image simply run:
```bash
make build
make tag
```
If you wish to push the image to AWS ECR first login:
```bash
aws ecr get-login-password — region eu-west-2 | docker login — username AWS — password-stdin <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr<region>.amazonaws.com
```
and then execute:
```bash
make push
```

## Prerequisites to run locally

- Docker installed
- A Docker container registry to push the App image which you will have to replace in the Makefile

## Prerequisites to deploy on Kubernetes

As mentioned earler, you will first need to provision a Kubernetes cluster or have one already running. 

You then to need to have:

- Helm installed
- An already provisioned Elastic Load Balancer on AWS by creating an NGINX Ingress Controller

To deploy on Kubernetes from the root execute:

```bash
helm install todoapp deployment/todoapp/ -f deployment/prod-values.yaml 
```

Commit message:

Docker registry in Helm values file now needs to be replaced

README.MD, after:

# Basic TODO App 

This is a basic TODO app, that can be deployed using the included Helm charts on Kubernetes. First you should set up a Kubernetes cluster with the repo found [here](https://github.com/dtraskas/dev-cluster1). 

The app can only store todo items in memory and offers three endpoints:

```http
GET /healthz
POST /tasks
GET /tasks
```

The `healthz` endpoint is used by Kubernetes to check the deployed pods for their health.

To run locally simply execute:

```bash
export FLASK_APP=app
flask run
```

## Makefile

The Makefile can be used to build a Docker image and push it to the Docker container registry of your choice. Please ensure you have replaced the registry in the Makefile before you run any command. You will also need to replace the Docker registry in the `deployment/todoapp/values.yaml`.

To build an image simply run:
```bash
make build
make tag
```
If you wish to push the image to AWS ECR first login:
```bash
aws ecr get-login-password — region eu-west-2 | docker login — username AWS — password-stdin <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr<region>.amazonaws.com
```
and then execute:
```bash
make push
```

## Prerequisites to run locally

- Docker installed
- A Docker container registry to push the App image which you will have to replace in the Makefile

## Prerequisites to deploy on Kubernetes

As mentioned earler, you will first need to provision a Kubernetes cluster or have one already running. 

You then to need to have:

- Helm installed
- An already provisioned Elastic Load Balancer on AWS by creating an NGINX Ingress Controller

To deploy on Kubernetes from the root execute:

```bash
helm install todoapp deployment/todoapp/ -f deployment/prod-values.yaml 
```
